socket_tls: add TLS 1.3 support using Mbed TLS (#77567)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: samples/net/sockets/tls_configurations/README.rst

      using ECDHE key exchange and EDCSA certificate with session tickets
   * ``sample.net.sockets.tls13.psk_kex``
      using pure PSK key exchange without any certificate.

Supported platforms
*******************

Only ``native_sim`` and ``native_sim/native/64`` are supported by this sample
because:

* TLS sockets are basically a software component so there is no need to test
  (i.e. depend on) some specific HW;
* and it simplifies the code (no TCP connection to handle for example) and
  testing (it can be easily tested against an OpenSSL server running on the
  same PC).

For this reason native offloaded sockets are used in this sample.

.. _how_to_build:

How to build
************

Here's an example on how to build the ``sample.net.sockets.tls13.ephemeral_kex``
configuration:

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/net/sockets/tls_configurations
   :tool: west
   :goals: build
   :host-os: unix
   :board: native_sim/native/64
   :west-args: -T sample.net.sockets.tls13.ephemeral_kex
   :compact:

All other configurations can be built similarly by just replacing the test item
with another listed in the :file:`sample.yaml` file.

How to test
***********

> OpenSSL server can easily be launched with the :file:`scripts/start-server.sh`

Author: This part has been removed because now testing is done though twister and pytest. No customized way of testing.

   :relevant-api: bsd_sockets tls_credentials

   Showcase how to up a socket-tls connection with different TLS configurations
   and test it against an OpenSSL server.

Overview
********

This example showcases various minimal Mbed TLS configurations to properly set up
a socket-tls client connection to a server. However since testing all possible
ciphersuites of TLS 1.2 and 1.3 might take a considerable amount of test time
and increase the size of :file:`sample.yaml` file for no valid reason, only some
relevant case is proposed:

* TLS 1.2

   * ``sample.net.sockets.tls12.rsa_kex``
      using RSA for key exchange and certificate validation
   * ``sample.net.sockets.tls12.ec_kex``
      relying elliptic curves algorithms, i.e. ECDHE for key exchange and ECDSA
      for certificate validation

* TLS 1.3

   * ``sample.net.sockets.tls13.ec_kex.no_tickets``
      using ECDHE key exchange and EDCSA certificate, but without session tickets
   * ``sample.net.sockets.tls13.ec_kex``
      using ECDHE key exchange and EDCSA certificate with session tickets
   * ``sample.net.sockets.tls13.psk_kex``
      using pure PSK key exchange without any certificate.

> Supported platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Supported platforms
```

******************

> Only ``native_sim`` or ``native_sim/native/64`` are supported by this sample. The
> reason is that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only ``native_sim`` and ``native_sim/native/64`` are supported by this sample because:
```

> * on one hand TLS sockets are basically a software component so there is no need

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* TLS sockets are basically a software component so there is no need
```

>   to test (i.e. depend) on some specific HW;

Reviewer: Actually, reading this again, the original would have been just fine. :blush:

* on the other one it simplifies the code (no TCP connection to handle for
  example) and test (it can be easily tested against an OpenSSL server running
  on the same PC).

For this reason native offloaded sockets are used in this sample.

.. _how_to_build:

How to build
************

Here's an example on how to build the ``sample.net.sockets.tls13.ec_kex``
configuration:

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/net/sockets/tls_configurations
   :tool: west
   :goals: build
   :host-os: unix
   :board: native_sim/native/64
   :west-args: -T sample.net.sockets.tls13.ec_kex
   :compact:

All other configurations can be build similarly by just replacing the test item
with those listed in the :file:`sample.yaml`.

How to test
***********

> OpenSSL server can easily be launched through the script
> :file:`scripts/start-server.sh`. It requires 1 input parameter which is used to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OpenSSL server can easily be launched with the
:file:`scripts/start-server.sh` script. It requires 1 input parameter which is used to
```

> select the proper configuration to be used:

Reviewer: Lots of properness in here. :smile:
```suggestion
select the configuration to be used:
```

* ``1.2-rsa``
* ``1.2-ec``
* ``1.3-ec-no_tickets``
* ``1.3-ec``
* ``1.3-psk``

For example:

.. code-block:: console

   ./scripts/start_server.sh 1.3-ec

will start a server instance which is compatible with the Zephyr application
built in :ref:`how_to_build` section.
Of course each Zephyr configuration listed in :file:`sample.yaml` requires
the proper server counterpart in order to work successfully.

Regenerate certificates and keys [optional]
*******************************************

If desired EC/RSA certificates and keys used in the sample can be re-generated
using the :file:`scripts/create-certs.sh` scripts. However this is totally

> optional and not required to run the sample.

Author: It's not strictly necessary but I thought it could be useful to show how to re-generate certificate and keys using a standard Linux tool. If you think this is not important I can remove the script and this section from the readme file.
